Next up, we want to go further
in depth and learn how
we can handle these errors.
That would be pretty awesome,
pretty fantastic, if you ask me.
Let's go ahead, move on and learn
the whole syntax of how we can
actually work with these errors
and gracefully handle them so
that the program doesn't crash.
Let me take you onto the screen.
And here we are on the screen
and let's start with this.
So the first thing that
we're going to do here is,
just create a new file.
That's always a good idea.
Let's go ahead and call this one as
02.
That will be try accept py.
All right, so what do we want
to do here this time?
Let's take a different example.
Again, this can be done
for the previous example as well,
but let's just say we have a chimenu
and this is an object or
a dictionary in this case.
And we have a simple masala, which is
probably costing us as 30 rupees.
And we have one more, which is
ginger, if I can write that, ginger,
and that's a little bit expensive,
so I'll just call it as 40 rupees.
And as you know, if I try to accept
something known as chimenu
with a key of, let's just say
eli chi, which is again a spice,
it will obviously give me an error.
Let's see the error first.
So if I just go and open this up,
I will say Python
Python 302 and we get that.
So again, this is a key error.
We just saw that the key
error also exists here.
So this is the key error.
The same way we can handle
others error as well.
Now here's the interesting
syntax if you don't want
your program to crash.
Because if I go ahead and print
up here something
and then I say hello, check code.
What?
You will notice that
if the key doesn't, we are not able
to find the key, then this
whole program just crashes.
Nothing.
Execute.
This part of code never executed.
But what if we know that
this is a sensitive operation,
maybe a database
call, maybe a web request?
Maybe we're trying to open
a file which might not exist.
So in that case you can just
cut this out and open
up a simple try block and just
paste it inside a try block.
The this simply says I'm trying
to do something which is sensitive,
which can cause a potential error.
So I'm just wrapping this
up into a safe bubble
and you can just try that.
And after that you can just look
for accept keyword in which
you can define the errors.
And by the way, you can
just name down your error
just like as E as well.
But since we know that what kind
of error can happen in this
case, we can just go ahead and say
I'm looking for a key error.
And if the key error happens,
we are going to just go ahead
and print a simple message that says
the key that you are trying
to access does not exist.
All right, so pretty nice one.
And let's go ahead and try
to work with this.
We know we have actually
invoked this error very carefully,
but you will get to see.
So notice here, this time we are
able to just get a,
custom error message and we are able
to see hello Chai code as well.
This is, is really one
of the nicest way of having this.
And we can actually go ahead
and work with more of this.
Let's create another
program and have it up there.
So let's go ahead
and create a new one.
We'll call this one as 03
and we're going to call this
one as complex Try py.
This time, instead of just
creating a simple accessing of
the value, we're going to go ahead
and create a method altogether,
which will be serve chai.
And obviously this
will take a, flavor.
And now let's see what happens.
The whole block.
We are going to wrap it up in the try
catch and I want to show you
more interesting stuff with that.
So first of all, in this we are going
to go ahead and take a simple print
statement that will be formatted and
we'll say preparing whatever the
flavor you have given me of chai
with a trip triple dot because it's
a, brewing process, it's taking its
time.
And if we go ahead and check if the
flavor value that you have given me
actually matches to unknown that you
haven't defined me, in that case, we
can actually raise our custom error.
It's not always about
printing the statement.
Sometimes you want to throw
the error, but you want to,
willingly throw that error.
So I'll throw an error
known as value error.
By the way, you can
throw up any error.
It's totally up to you.
And I will simply say value
error that says we don't
know that flavor because I'm
not aware of that flavor.
Simply just like that.
All right?
And what we can do is we can still
handle the exception just like this.
And we're going to say value error.
And let's cast this.
We don't want to call it
value error all the time.
We'll just call this One as E.
So that's a shorthand for it.
Now we can call our value error as E.
And in here we are going
to go ahead and see simple print.
We're going to take an example.
Don't worry, I know this is a lot
of code and here we are going to go
ahead and just print the E value.
All right, so far we have
seen this, try catch.
But there is also one more thing,
that hey, if this whole thing is if
the flavor is unknown, but what if
the case everything all goes good.
In that case we can simply run
the else statement also
and I can just print the value here
formatted printing that says
whatever the flavor chai is served.
In this case, and here's
the interesting part which
you will see quite a lot.
There is also a block
known as finally.
No matter try catch, try
1 runs or the accept runs
finally will always run.
This is usually useful when you
are trying to close the file.
Once everything has happened,
crashed or whatever, you want
to just clean the memory or, or
maybe you have a database
connection, you want to just
finally close it out, whatever
has happened.
So in that case you can just
go ahead and use finally.
It always works, it always prints.
In our case what makes sense is
come on, next customer please.
So whatever the order we are getting,
we actually want to have it.
Let's go ahead and try
to actually use this method now.
So we know that we have
a serve chai method and we
can ask for a masala chai.
And similarly we can also
go ahead and pass
on literal value of unknown.
There we go.
Let's see what happens in this case.
Let's run this and we'll say Python
03 and notice here, so we are
seeing preparing masala chai.
All right, that we have asked for it.
So this is line number three
that is getting executed.
After that it says
masala chai is served.
All right, so we are not going
in this block of code.
And also definitely we are
not getting any value errors
or anything like that.
We simply went up into
the else part which is saying
masala chai is served.
And notice here finally always
execute which says
next customer please.
So here we see the next customer
please is being printed.
Now next time when the function
runs with the value of unknown
this time we go up here again.
So it says preparing
the unknown chai.
So we are executing
the line number three.
Then we simply see that
hey, this flavor unknown.
I don't know what that is.
So the error that we are giving now
is Raise the value error, which
says, we don't know that flavor.
And this is what we get.
Notice here, program didn't crash.
We gracefully handled it.
So the error is
we don't know that flavor.
All right, but notice here,
what happens is this whole thing
and everything, nothing gets
printed, nothing gets executed.
So we are handling the errors nicely.
But this part also doesn't execute
because, hey, it doesn't execute.
In that case, we have gone into
the either you go into the if block
or you go into the else block.
But always remember this if block
and this else block are not related.
They are not on the same indentation.
This else block is a part of this.
Try catch.
Yes, common syntax.
And notice here, no matter
what happens, the finally
always gets printed out.
So this is what we
really want to have.
We have the error, but we have
gracefully handled that error.
Now, you can actually handle
multiple errors, and that's
exactly what we're going
to see in the next video.
But I hope this code
will take a little time to observe
and to understand it.
But take a time, take your
moment and try to understand.
This is hardly 11 lines of code,
but this is a very common piece of
code that you're going to see quite
a lot in your development journey.
That is it for this video.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next one.